  BOOTCAMP

Devops intro

devops into jly18 syllabus

study Devops jly16 1st video


1) boothcamp 33 1st video
explain ur experience with jenkins, problems uve faced and work me tru your jenkins pipeline
TO YOU WHAT IS DEVOPS
AND HOW IS IT POSSIBLE THAT MAVEN CAN DO ALL  OF THIS ?
************ so u must always speak as someone who is at work not one in the class u see when am speaking i want to tk u bk to my env, 
what do you use for versiong??
you use git not github as 
we use github as a source code manager, the software used for versoning is git
github is a source code manger used for source code manger


WHAT ARE THE BSET GIT PROCESSES IN our env 
TELL US WHAT YOU USE GIT FOR 

    AWS certification
but do i need to get AWS ceritified solution architect to get a job?
the answer is you can still hv it but dnt get a job 
bc the main focus is what can you do  and what you can do is what you have been doing 

*** i:30 :20 
 WHAT HAVE YOU DONE IN IT , ( answering as one with 5years experience rather than just certification)

HOW CAN YOU TAKE OUR COY TO THE NEXT LEVEL .

WHAT IS YOUR EXPERIENCE IN JENKINS



2)bootcamp dec26 2023 class33

Are we going to be pushing and deploying these codes , also developers are going to be using diff terminals or if they are already using github wil they be obligated to use
gitbash bc its a by product of github



3) )morning devotion -  Dec 15, 2023......FOCUS: MODEL ANSWERS   
**** 10 MODEL QUESTIONS

How do you fit in the picture of this role in our company
Describe the project you are currently managing=.3mins

interview simulation with andrie 1.45
1)tell me about yourself
my name is 
am an experienced devops engr
with the help multiple devop tools hv been able to deploy appl to multiple env
in my env i hv 2 basic roles inlcude ensuring the availability, reliability & ensuring security of our applications are up to date 
troubleshooting intergration issues, error messages, code reviews
patching our servers using ansible 
for the 2nd role it incldes managing the whole pipeline process

Explain one of the projects u are woking on lately
one of the projects i was tasked to work on is that 
traditionally we were initially we were using kubeabm to manage our cluster but at this time i was asked to set up a kub production grade cluster for our prod env
one of the main reason we needed to do this is to increase the automation activity of our k8 cluster interms of the scability & availablity & to simplify the 
maintenanace of our k8 infastrtucture , for m ei was very hapy knowing that i would use trarfrm to ongo this projcrt bc of the numerous adv terrfrm bring dto the table 
as well as the robust infrastruture of trfrm 
so inorder to mk sure evrythin is well  decoumented, orgnaised i personally created the terfrm scripts with well defined variables & ensuring that every variable that needed
configuration were all pramitarized this was to increasee the flexiblity & to keep our k8 infastruture in a good & stable state
so with the help of terfrm i was able to produce & setup a k8 grad prod cl8
Also i took it a bit further by integrating jenkins 6...


In the project you are managing hv you encountered any problem & how did you fix them  ??
8.14
yea so in the course of the project, i had to specify roles for our contractors 

14.30 proff

30.00  James    8/10
am very exicted abt micservices & very skilled at k8, & having read abt your compy the diractio u guys is what am passionate abt & i cant waitto bring containerization & 
Microservices & all the yrs of skills hv been ablet to muster acress diff platdorms to your cy..
once again tnk u for this opportunity & i cant wait to see where the future leads. 


33.. software developer 
33.60
implemeting zero downtime deployment & curating what is called a faulty tolerance k8 deployment 
also for the past 1yr hv beeen moving towards controlled k8 deployment by bringing into our whole env k8 chaios engineering
i will call myself a devops engr that also at the same time drives what is called continous deployment by actually curating deployment that has zero downtime 
and thats my main goal & target


35.50 ... modupe   8/10

45.00 ... prof
i am a life long student

***meeee...
i am a life long student & that comes natural to me as a licenced teacher with oct & teaching as a high school teacher for over 6yrs, staying updated has been a very crucial
part of my life as you can tell its a very imp factor not just in the teaching & learning profession but also the tech world & that i fing very exciting.


59.40   7/10     EKS setup using terfrm
One of the projects am currently woring on is setting up an EKS cluster & i was taske dto use tarefm to set it up
FIRST, i gathered all the requirements i needed to setup the eks cluster
i needed a vpc, a subnet & someother things.. after this i created my tefrm code
and for the vpc i needed a minimum of 2subnets so i needed to create 4subnets in diff avail zone to give us more coverage & i also needed to create 2 public & 2private subnet
to create the eks cluster so i dnt hv any error & also tag the vpc
also craete a label for my subnet & also create cluster iam roles for the eks service that will be used in aws
so i had to mk all this documentation then i craeted my vpc, eks cluster, all the roles i had to set & also the principal eks service that will be req in the eks cl8
also i was having issues initially until i realized that the credntials i used in creating the eks are the only authorized credentials bc i the credentials i was trying to 
use was not the credentials i used in creating the eks credentials bc its the only authorized credential to use &  modify or edit the config map
i also created the roles group & attached the policies which must be amazon mg8 polices


1.12
2)Describe the project you are currently managing.... 3mins
you should be able to walk the interviewer tru any tool

each of this point can be the only job you do at work, am the k8 guy in our env

Describe the project you are currently managing = 3mins
eks setup using terraform
- containerisation of applications using docker
- orchestrating/managing containerised applications using kubernetes
- writing and modifying kubernetes manifest files
- writing jenkins pipelines scripts for ci/cd automation
- managing and granting access into aws services
- deploying aws services using terraform
- migrating monolithic to microservices architecture
Setting up a kubernetes cluster using KOPS managing artifacts using nexus
writing and modifying ansible playbooks & roles for fileMGT/userMGT/packageMGT/deploymentMGT/securityMGT
- writing and modifying dockerfile, docker-compose files creating and sharing docker images using best pactices
- writing and modifying Jenkinsfiles and Jenkins shares libraries
- deploying APM tools like NeWRelic, Prometheus/Grafana using helm preparing detail documentations
- morning devotion
1.11.43... whats the diff btw writing a jenkins file & Jenkins shared lib ?


1.26.00   the resume reference have been updated so take note when watching the next video which i jsut shared regarding resume preparation



3). how are java web applications deployed?
1. tomcat or JBoss server
2. as docker containers using docker
3. containers using kubernetes



4) what problems have you faced in $tool and how did you resolve them
explain a problem you faced in your project and the steps you took to resolve it.

5). walk-in through your jenkins pipelines

6). explain the kubernetes architecture

7). explain the terraform workflow

8). walk us through how you implement a fault tolerance kubernetes deploy

9)explain your experience and problems faced and fixed in:
1. multi-tier application deployment
2. open source technologies
3. Linux systems / Maven / sonarqube / kubernetes / ansible / terraform / aws /

10)Explain the process of what happens when an end user types google.com?
How do you migrate from on prem toAWS?




QUESTIONS
1.33.00 
you gave us abt 5videos on udemy to consume  but regarding gatting a job, what should be our focus, is it the videos on the legacy channnel group bc with the time 
by which we hv to consume the videos given they are very long.

ANS:
yea a lot of videos are on the legacy bootcamp channel but ill hv priority to what is in the legacy bootcamp channel for now
like the python that is 2hrs or 4hrs try and dedicate one early morning and watch it


1.35.25  in ibe explannation he was trying to explain appl deployment, the way the appl is made avai to client such that its a 3tier appl
but there are 2things:
deploying application is one 
exposing those applications to endusers is 2

how do you deploy your appl, ??thats the first part of the bargain, such that in an interview,
if you are deploying appl in tomact servers & informing  that on my pipeline
am using ansible to automate the dployment so we hv abt 7tomcat servers, hv wrtten playbooks all the tomcat servers are part of our host inventory in ansible & by the 
time we run our playbook the appl is automatically deployed by tomcat to all the app servers
that is deploying the appl.

after the deployment ensuders need to access the appl, so how do they access the appl?

our env is heavy on security, so security is inherent
we expose the appl by placing a loadbalance, a webserver infront of our app servers therfrore endusers traffic only talk to our webserver
and the webserver since we are using nginx ingress, we have been able to craete ingress rule that route traffic to the back end appservers.
theres a way you can present your fact and that is my main focus 
u can be very good and u go for 10 interviews but u dnt get hired bc your facts are not well presented.... 1.37.35




3)bootcamp33 sep21 2023 video2

4)interview question bootcamp dec19

5)interview questions and answer in bootcamp33

6)DevSecOps morning devotion Dec22 2023

7)devops interview question suggested answer


class21 and devops interview 85dollars


DevSecOps morning devotion Dec22 2023
