linux1

 ******* From bootcamp Dec26 

CHRIS  said he was using jenkins to do a build but was always having a fail

proff:
    if theres a problem ,you dnt just first dive into your pom.xml file
the first thing is to check the logs, if we are building in jenkins, thats what we call console output 
u go to the console output and try to identify what cud be the cause of the problem, if the cause of the problem will need that i get into pom.xml to check then il do that 
if the cause is for you to talk to dvelopers to inform them to check their code , it cannot run bc the compilers they hv defined is the wrong compilers they shud check
their pluggins , the pluggins defined in pom.xml are not the pluggins the job neeeds to run , so they shud wrk on it and define the correct pluggins , 
so if theres a problem check the logs 



58:00
    Thank you for this question

in my env i am incharge of manging artifacts , and as part of my job, i set up my nexus artifactory  by creating a nexus serevr, ensuring that nexus is fully installed, 
ensure thats its running as expected, i create artifactories, repositories in nexus n i use the artifcatory  repository url to modify my project file which is pom.xml,
this wil permit us to upload artifacts into this artifcatories, when we build frm the development branch, artifacts are uploaded into the nexus releases repository .. 59:00
when we build form the master or the relaese branch, artifacts are uploaded into the release repository
i was tasked to upload some artifacts into the release repository and i realised for some reason i kept getting build fail and when i checked the logs i realised i was using 
the wrong version in my pom.xml, instaed of ensuring that the versioning is tagged to releases it was tagged to snapshot, so i quickly went to my pom.xml modified the version
used the corret version which was snapshot and once i had to rebuld again via my pipeline that failure never existed because it was now uploading artifacts into the snapshot
repository that was expected.


                              EXPLAIN YOUR EXPERIENCE IN OPEN SOURCE TECHNOLOGY
Linux with open source technologies the software is free
including the source code (recipe/secrets of the biz)


  
Linux2
  INTERVIEW QUESTION
What is the diff btw bin and sbin directory in linux ??
SBIN: are system binary files only executable by users with adminstrative or elevated priviledges or admin/root user
eg adduser , chage

                              WHILE
BIN : Binary fies executable by any user (normal user& admin user)
eg ls, pwd, cd, touch


LINUX 3A & 3B  was linux commands etc



SCRIPTING 1&2
My question : what is hard coding and soft coding???


  QUESTION   1:45:22

you were explaning abt the go goland, the powershell, talking abt the xml, i just want to know do they really perform the same function or diff functions 

ANS:
Not actually the same function , but u may want to write a script to deploy appl and youchoose to write it in go or goland language , or you write in bash shell scripting 
or the language your are versatile in or the lanuguage used in your project
so you work in landmark , which language are you goin to hv a mastery of it goin to be based on the language we use in our own project 


 


1:46:38

WE Hv seen how we can run this scripts by manually typing the commands to execute them 
so my quetson is are we still goin to to go tru how we can automate this scripts automatically , ie mayb ur system restarts and the script starts automatically 

ANS;

yes, we are goin to look at some of those things how we can achieve automation in scripting  using a cron table , not even your that your system start , thats just one thing
i can decide that my server all the data base  shud backup at midnight , how do you do that , you use a cron table 
u write a script that will backup all your data bases at midnight

thats why in devops engrs can hv multiple jobs bc they can give you a ticket thats a repeating action , u write a script taht can run that job ,so u just always checck the 
logs to ensure script is running as expected



SCRIPT 3&4

IQ: Explain your experience in shell scripting  ?
1. using bash shell scripts for userMGT. 100% [New Graduate]    
2. In my environment/company/Landmark i use scripting for userMGT for over 5 years. 


IQ: What is the significance of $? in scripting.
  It gives the status of your last run command.
  The value can be = 0 [Its okay]   or 
  The value can be = 1-127 [Its not okay]   

IQ
What is the significance of $$ in linux

ANS:
This represents the process ID of the last command because whatever w edo in linux there is a process ID created for it 


IQ
*** if asked whatelse can be done with $?  
         ( it can be used to run a command with conditions)

IQ: 
hOw do you troubleshoot issues in scripting?

ANS:
 Run the script in debugging mode
sh -x scriptName  

IQ: Examples of autamted tasks:
  Explain your experience in bash shell scripting??
AMSWER:
 In my environment I have written, Maintained/modified
  shell scripts to:
    monitor_servers.sh    - to monitor servers
    dataBase_backup.sh     -  to backup databases
    deploy_app.sh          - to display application
    access_account.sh      - access accounts
    user_management.sh    -     to mg8 users
    file_management.sh     -       for filr mgt


******** have equally written functions to avoid repetition of codes




GIT1
Interview Questions
As a DevOps Engineer, what are your roles & responsilities
    in Versioning with Git?
Answer:
  1. We ensure that Developers environments are configured and secured 
     We create an enabling environment for Developers to code/Develop
       DevelopmentServers are created in AWS/GCP.  
       share login details with Developers/Team [ userName/password ]  
       Ensure that git package/Software is installed 



      GIT 2
what is  GIT PULL/CLONE
Git pull: pulls changes to your local environment
git clone: downloads a version of the entire development work to your local environment



 IQ: How many branches are you supporting in your projects?
    Branches are used to create lines of development in git. 
    A branch is a line of development 
 In our environment in landmark , We maintain / support a minimun of 3 branches:
        development branch ,staging branch, master branch  


                                   GIT 4
IQ: 
how can we merge a particular commit among many commits


IQ:
What is the difference between Git & Github:
Git is an open source Distributed Version Control System(DVCS) which records
changes made to files (codes) laying emphasis on speed, data integrity in a
distributed non-linear workflows.  
GitHub is a source code management[SCM] tool


IQ
Explain your branching strategy in LandmakTechnology ?? 















