docker ps  to list the runing containers
to stop the container u can execute 
   docker kill/stop  
and once the containeer is stopped, you can start the container
BUT DPCKER Stop is recommemnded bc it will give a warning b4 stopping whie docker kill doesnt give a warning

How to troubleshoot or debug applications running as docker containers?
1. docker ps -a =
= will check if the container is running, paused or exited
 docker start/unpause
﻿﻿﻿2) docker top = check resources
﻿﻿﻿3) docker stats containerNAME/ID
﻿﻿﻿4) docker logs containerNAME/ID
5) ﻿﻿﻿docker exec = run command inside the container
docker exec app 1s docker exec -it app
/bin/bash
7)﻿﻿﻿docker inspect containerNAME/ID
8)99﻿﻿﻿docker attach containerNAME/ID
﻿﻿﻿netstat -tulpn

  to TS 
the first command to run is docker ps to check if the container is running
1) then docker ps -a ,to check if it stopped
if its in stop state , u strt the container
but if it not stopped but the process is stopped u hv to unpause it
2) docker inspect  ... "will show us network ie is the container in a ntwrk" does it v ip adress, a container thats running we shud see the ip address in networks
and we can see the state as shown below that the container is nt running based on my inspeection, so we can start the container to solve the problem bc d container is exited
e.g
"State": {
"Status": "exited"
"Running": false,
"Paused": false,
"Restarting": false,
"OOMKilled": false,
"Dead": false,
"Pid": 0,
"ExitCode": 143,
"Error". ""
"StartedAt"? "2023-01-23T11:43:20.4499908057"
"FinishedAt": "2023-01-27Т00:14:15.

### most of the time when we look at networking after we kill a container n start a container, we ll see the ipaddresss will change

3) docker top container name/id  ...to check the process running inside a container 

4) docker stats ... resources being consumed by the cointainer process
5) docker update container name/id

13:13 to run command inside a container
﻿﻿﻿docker exec app pwd 
﻿﻿﻿docker exec app ls   .. to see the files
we can actually get into the container to execute command by accessing the container in intercative mode
docker exec -it app   .. for interactive mode
to interact with the container we nid a shell
so we can use a bash shell  .. : docker exec -it app bash
or bond shell sh
docker exec -it app sh
then pwd : 
/usr/local/tomcat      :shows me wher i am
but when i tried to exit it says not found
so we can see the bo
