QQQQ WHEN USING jenkins in a windows computer what is the command to run????

http://34.205.129.202:8080/github-webhook/

Interview Questions on Jenkins
12:30 ###couldnt log back into jenkins on the browser so vi config.xml & change use security frm true to false then sudo systemctl retart jenksinand ls -l config.xml
to knw who owns the file

1. What is Jenkins executables?
  A Jenkins executor is one of the basic building blocks which allow a build to run on a node/agent/slave  (e.g. build server).
  ##for us to avoid a single point of failue, we configure jenkins master slave archi,& we realize when configuring a job in jenkins we hv the option of restrict whre dis
project can be built n in doing so we can choose any slave server, so jenkins wil nt be built frm d master, it wil build using a slave n d only reason that is achieved is
using the jenkins executables/executor

Think of an executor as a single “process ID”, 
  or as the basic unit of resource that Jenkins executes on an agent/slave/node to run a build.

#####5:56when we were doing a build in d slave, we we didnt instal maven, we only installed java in d slave btjenkins did a build in the slave server n that was 
possible due to jenkins executables


2. Explain the difference betweem freestyle and pipeline projects? .. tnk u so much in landmak we hv both freestyle n pipeline projects we use free mostly for our projects 
that hv to do with db backups, provisoning , monitoring of servers etc wheres all our projects dat relate to SW development dat relate to jenkins pullin the code frm github,
talking to maven to do a build , sonarqube for code quality we go via pipeline project 21:00

##21:52 with the help of a jenkins file we can define a node n decide that this node is stage1, so wit pipeline project its easy, bc der wil b a project wher u want mayb d 
build server to do the build, sonar for codequality so we can integrate all of this servers as slave servers in jenkins,& for each stage we decide d node dat particaular 
process wil run on, & dat is easily achieved using a pipeline project


freestyle option is the legacy build option dat jenkins hv been using, it the first option dat was avaialable when jenkins was first developed as a ci/cd tool& can be used
to build any project but a pipeline project Orchestrates long-running activities that can span multiple build agents. Suitable for building pipelines 
(formerly known as workflows) and/or organizing complex activities that do not easily fit in free-style job type.
pipeline  project is normally preffered for projects that can  is nt fit or can not be used for freestyle project
freestyle project is basically used for jenkins build& it the first option dat was initially used in jenkins to do a build ,it can even be used to run non SDLC builds (projects
e.g monitoring servers, database backup, provision servers etc, we can easily intergrate this with a freestyle project but for SDLC builds we run mvn package

PIPELINE: is used for complex projects
its also Iac= like to do a build i nid my jenkins pipeline script in a file called jenkins& evrytin i nid to do is defined in the file, so the imp of Iac cant be overemphasized
bc we can easily implement reusable code bc with the jenkins file i can easily modify it


3. Is it adviseable to deploy code from the feature branch in production? NO, bc we only deploy code frm master branch to prod, we can create a feature branch, /bugfix hotfix
 the recommendation wil be if our client wnt a part feature to be added to their appl, then our developers wil create new line/branch of dev frm d master branch.. 
so WHTAEVER is added,  developers wil develop, once they develop they create a pull(MERGE) rEQ 4 oda devlopers to review wot they hv done , if evertin is ok it shud 
be thoroughly tested b4 it is integrated into the master branch then from der we deploy to prod 

also its nt adviceable to deploy frm the bugfix branch 26;00

dev branch -- dev environment 
stage -- staging/UAT/ testing envr
master-- prod


4. Explain Jenkins intergration with GitHub?
1)it get to do wit authentication & authurization, jenkin nid to be auth in github using PW& username& by virtue of dat jenkins is now auth to clone codes from github
& for that to happen w hv to create cred where we authorize jenkins to communicate wit github ,& auth tk place in jenkins server using cred credentials can be 
token/username or generally PW & username  ..we go to our cred section of github& create our credentials such dat jenkins can easily get authenticated to 
pull code frm github .... bc gitcloning frm a privte repo we nid authentication & 90% ofd time we'l be 
cloning frm a private repo30:00 we can go to settings to change a project frm pulic to privat but may nt wrk if the repo has already being forked.
credentials : PW & username .. access is difficult to manage bt wit tokens, access can be defined , so we can define what a specific user or token can do.
 ## 39:50 to manage cred - manage jenkins- credentials

2)#41:43 can also talk abt build triggers -- most importantly web hook, bt b4 dis mk sure u hv created cred for github account in jenkins
3) identity mgt platforms like LDAP / or identity & access mgt IAM , once the users in the LDAP server are exported to our github account & into our jenkins server,
it means that those users can easily get authenticated

5. Walk-me through the steps you use to install and/or updates plugins in Jenkins? .. we can also completely manage jenkins frm the CLI 
THE COY IS EMPLOYING u as an engr nt as a student in internship
##48:22 1st step .. so in landmak the fist tin we do is login to jenkins server bt b4 dis is done a change REQ is created , this implies that the coy wil hv a meeting 
wher dey say this month, we wnt to update our servers, the plugins in jenkins & as a dev engr ill create a change reQ bc am nt the only one managing the server, then 
i explain the type of change to creat or confiure e.g to install or updtae some pluggins in jenkins& once its approved,, i login to jenkins server - manage jenkins- mange
plugins& either update or instal the plugins... so is it the linux adminstrator that does the plugin installing & updates? can be done by either the develpers 
or devops engr . bc most companies dnt hire system administrator any longer or their numbers are droping& dats why we started wit linux command so u can
knw hw to do update .. so if a linux admin is nt working in ur coy,, devops engr can fit in the shoe


6. Why do we need an artifactory in the Jenkins build process?
to helpus backup our build artifacts & in landmak we use nexus as our artifactory, so all our build artifacts ar backed up in nexus such dat is smt goes wrong wit our 
build server we can always get our artifacts fmr nexus as a amtter of fact we can even deploy the code directly frm our artifcat repo


7. Explain the difference between remote repositories and local repositories? 
56:00  generally, a remote repo is held extrenally, its nt on the local server & a remote repo e.g in git ,in the SDLC in landmak, our developers ar distributed& each of
this developers hv their own local envir where they ar doing their dev, on dose local envir they hv their local repo where dey commit their codes b4 pushing the commit  
in the remote repo & our remote repo is held in github.... to get code frm the remote repo to local we run git pull/clone
also in maven we hv maven local repo & maven remote repo .. maven local repo by default when build artifacts ar created dey can be found in target dir & to get dem here we 
run mvn package wich will creat the build artifact in target dir 
58:00 for maven install the build artifacts will be in maven local repo which is .m2/repository, the default maven repo 
mvn deploy to upload the build artifacts to maven remote repository .... in landmak, its nexus ,, other coy can be jfrog

8. what is sudo in Linux administration?
this is the right givn to privilege users to run admin task or binary both (bin/sbin files


9. Tell me about the project you are currently managing?
1:49:40  in landmak we ar managing java based projects, we ar working wit team of developers who ar continously doing dev so we ar acheving continous dev& we hv intergratwed 
our dev envir such that we ar using jenkins to automate the entire envi & as such when develpoers commit any code to github we hv config jenkins to talk to github using
cred & we ar equally using pull trigers, build trigers like github webhook, so whenever developers commit a code in github, jenkins will immediately pullit^ do a build
... bt this is jst a skeleton bc as we progress ull realise it has a lot to do wit docker wit jenkins, kubernetes , docker, ansible


###1:02:50 .. most schs jst jump into jenkins& u may jst get to hear of maven a little  but we did maven as a standalone tool


10. What are the syntax in ansible playbook? this is a simple file
#1:03 some playbooks may hv multiple plays, 
so we hv plays
the syntax has host
roles
 
  it has task as part of task it has vars , handlers, 
with errors .. these are conditions that even wit the error continue



JENKINS Questions (JENKINS project)
1. what is jenkins?
##1:04:45 .. this is an open source CI/cd tool.. java is the prerequisite for jenkins  

2. what are the plugins you have used in Jenkins?
so many plugins e.g 
pluggin for pipeline projects
for jenkins running note
for safe restart etc
schedule plugin for building in intervals

3. How can you migrate jenkins to a new and upgraded server?
tnk u for this question, it falls in line wit a task i had to do ,3months ago, i was assigned to migrate my jenkins server frm a VM to a container, i chieved this using
job import plugin , wich is usde to import jobs frm one jenkins server to another jenkins server.

4. Which plugins have you used for sonarqube and Code Coverage?
unfortunately in landmak we dnt use plugins bc we hv a full sonarqube server that weuse for our codequality analysis bc sonarqube & codequality for us is very imp, so for
jenkins sonarqube integration we ar using a sonarqube server howerevr in the sonarqube server when we ar abt to est code quality review we ar runing sonar;SONAR.. 
& in sonar:soanr, the first sonar is the  plugin dat does scanning & the 2nd sonar is the goal whic is to excute sonarque report bt then we need a scanner therore we nid 
to add the pluggin thats why we run sonar;SONAR BC AM INTegrating jenkins&sonarqube
also occasion we hv equally used a plugin called jacoco.. java code coverage

5. what is the re-requisites for Jenkins and Jenkins slaves? 
java must be installed in the master b4 jenkins can start
error -- java nt installed 
java must be running in the slaves b4 jenkins executables can run,, java must be running b4 jenkins can fully integrate the master wit the slaves& run jobs wit the slaves
using jenkins executable

6. Explain how to add slaves nodes to a jenkins master?
we are using ssh agent plugging and with the help of this w create crednetials:username&PW, username& private key , since our resources ar provisioned in AWS 1:15:15
we can then do the config and decide if we wnt the slave server to online as much as possible 

7. Can I use different OS to as nodes and/or master?
the jenkins master server can be installed on any OS ,, IE WE CAN JENKINS ON A window server/ linux server/ mac OS..same wit the jenkins node,
SO I can add any slave to my jnekins master


8. What are different ways to create jobs in jenkins?
freestyle,pipeline, multi pipeline, multibranch ,maven.... upstream & downstream is jst a configuration

9. What are different types of pipeline scripts?
scripted & declarative


10. what is the difference between scripted and Declarative pipeline?

with declara we are going to manually create the script declaring all the variable we want bt for scripted, we ar building frm a jenkins file

11. what are 3 important stages in a pipeline job?
build, test and deployment

12. what are the difference stages of a Jenkins pipeline job?
gitclone- mavenbuild-codequality-upload artifacts into nexus- bt b4 deploying, der ar various options to deploy,, either we deploy into tomact/jboss or 
we can deploy as a docker container or kubernetes or ansible & ansible wil manage the rest and aftr deployment  -- email

13. what is the last stage in a pipeline?
deployment

14. How can you select a custom Jenkinsfile which is in the project repository?
###1:23:00  when cong jenkins job in jenkins the selection can be done 
add itme-pipeline- in the script path paste the file url copied from github
1:24:00 creating and adding a file
1:25:50  coping the path of a created file


15. Explain how to configure nexus username and password?
in jenkins - we go to maven home dir ,,, OUR MHD is normally found under tool
/var/lib/jenkins/tools/hudson.tasks.Maven_MavenInstallation/maven/conf/settings.xml
##1:35:35  but if the LDAP is intergrated in jenkins then I Wont use the default user, ill jst use my name &PW thats authentiacted already on the LDAP server


16. Explain how you configure kubernetes and Docker in pipeline script?


17. Where can I configure tools in Jenkins GUI?

18. How you will check whether build is success or not?

19. Explain how you have configure a job completed successfully to trigger another one? 

20. How can you stop particular stage in a pipeline job from being executed?

21. what are the different ways to automate jobs?

22. Any plugin to migrate jobs from one server to another?

23. How many master and slave machine are in your CI-CD projects?

24. Explain Jenkins master and slave architecture?



FRM JEN SHARED LIB
1:02 QQQQQQQQQQQQQ interview,, whats ur experience using jenkins, dnt start wit i hv config jenkins, start wit v using shared lib, hv used jen shared lib in my environment bc
                             most of our projects we use jenkins file to run them bc most of our projects ar basically java projects that we support, using maven to do a build
                             for code quality support, uploading to nexus, for al the common stages we v written shared libs to ease the process n mk our pipeline projects, 
                              jenkins script to be easily readable bc der cud be 10 steps in our stage so it makes it easy
 1:33:15   what hv u been doing in landmark..  i hv been maintaining jenkins pipeline scripts, shared lib for files, that had been my job, i maintain them, modify, update
customize them... at ur company most of the files already exits so u dnt nid to rewrite them, jst maintain them.
#1:32: is the file name are they syntax or a variable  . anytin u name is wot ull call 
##### why do we use sh and not bash since bash has more extensions.. genally we use sh for our jenkins job bt bash also wil work, if jenkins was installed on a windows server
what wil u be using 
QQQQQQ once the master is down the slave cannot run, so wots the imp of the use cases in jenkins,, in real wrk environment we always clean up our server to optimize uptime 
an uptime is hw much time ur server can run without failing,or has been running without failing,,so we dnt jst  expect jenkins server to jst fail, so hw do we prevent 
jenkins server frm failing??? it alos depends on d load the server is receiving, d number of jobs jenkins server is receiving, so if we hv multiple jobs we can create slave 
servers to spport our jenkins master, so wit the help of dose slaves, we can config jobs to run on oda slave servers & dat prevents situations where jobs are lost bc if
u were creating artifacts on a slave woteva is run on the slave is backed up automatically n if the master goes down u can go bk on the slave n see d history of the 
jobs created on those particular slave servers
we ar usimng a jenkins master slave arthiture to create a sit where even if our jenkins server was to fail we'l nt hv any problem 2nd, it hepls us to achieve speed in a sit
where we hv multiple jobs to run, we can run dem concurrently,we can hv multple executors n jenkins executors ar dose parameters in jenkins that is used to enable jenkins 
run jobs in jenkins slave servers 
in a complex pipeline project wher u hv to use multple agents, e.g u decide to config sonarqube as an agent so when u get to sonarqube level wot do u use in the stages u hv
a diff agent wich is the sonarqube agent,, so we hv use cases like that
2:07:42 tk advantage of one tin wich jenkins equally has to offer wich is jenkins has a lot of documentaion wich u can read

also, hw can u backup ur jobs in jenkins such dst if it fails u ar able to restore the files u deleted 
socan we backup in our jenkins server:
- manage jenkins- install backup plugins- can install thinbackup,it very powerful -go to its settins: backup dir:/var/lib/jenkins/jenkinsbackup/ 2:09:50
i can config my jenkins & creat a folder in my jenkins hm dir to backup all my jobs .. max number of backup set can b 5 ,we can use 1 also to maximize the use 
then tick backup build result,backup usercontent Backup next build number file,Backup plugins archives,.. we hv other options to exclude some files as well save & 
on the nxt page click on backup now & everytin abt ur jenkins job wil be saved...  in jenlins CLI i can ls jenkinsbackup/ wich is d dir i created, i can see all the 
so we use thinbackup for backups for our jobs & oda important components like pluggins and can click on restore if a file was mistakenly deletd

2:15:20 developers hv written restful APis as part of this app.js , this APIs cud be /cx account& we hv a list of cx account that ar available so once i query 
cx account am expected to get all the cx account displayed, thats a rest API... 
the nxt is /html and in our app.json file html ha being developed to display wlc
